README.md, before:

# Infracost GitHub Action

This GitHub Action runs [Infracost](https://infracost.io) against pull requests whenever Terraform files change. It automatically adds a pull request comment showing the cost estimate difference for the planned state. See [this repo for a demo](https://github.com/infracost/gh-actions-demo).

The Action uses the latest version of Infracost by default as we regularly add support for more cloud resources. If you run into any issues, please join our [community Slack channel](https://www.infracost.io/community-chat); we'd be happy to guide you through it.

As mentioned in our [FAQ](https://infracost.io/docs/faq), no cloud credentials or secrets are sent to the Cloud Pricing API. Infracost does not make any changes to your Terraform state or cloud resources.

<img src="screenshot.png" width=557 alt="Example screenshot" />

## Table of Contents

* [Usage methods](#usage-methods)
  * [Terraform directory](#1-terraform-directory)
  * [Terraform plan JSON](#2-terraform-plan-json)
* [Inputs](#inputs)
* [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
* [Outputs](#outputs)
* [Contributing](#contributing)

# Usage methods

Assuming you have [downloaded Infracost](https://www.infracost.io/docs/#quick-start) and ran `infracost register` to get an API key, there are two methods of using the Infracost GitHub Action:

1. **Terraform directory**, this is the simplest method. However, we recommend the second method if you run into issues relating to `terraform init` or `terraform plan`.

2. **Terraform plan JSON**, this uses the [setup-terraform](https://github.com/hashicorp/setup-terraform) GitHub Action to first generate a plan JSON file then passes that to the Infracost GitHub Action using the `path` input.

### 1. Terraform directory

1. [Add repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) for `INFRACOST_API_KEY` and any other required credentials to your GitHub repo (e.g. `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`).

2. Create a new file in `.github/workflows/infracost.yml` in your repo with the following content. Use the [Inputs](#inputs) and [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section below to decide which `env` and `with` options work for your Terraform setup. The following example uses `path` to specify the location of the Terraform directory and `terraform_plan_flags` to specify the variables file to use when running `terraform plan`. The GitHub Actions [docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#on) describe other options for `on`, though `pull_request` is probably what you want.

  ```yml
  on:
    pull_request:
      paths:
      - '**.tf'
      - '**.tfvars'
      - '**.tfvars.json'
  jobs:
    infracost:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      name: Show infracost diff
      steps:
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Run infracost diff
        uses: infracost/infracost-gh-action@master # Use a specific version instead of master if locking is preferred
        env:
          INFRACOST_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.INFRACOST_API_KEY }}
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }} # Do not change
          # See the cloud credentials section for the options
        with:
          entrypoint: /scripts/ci/diff.sh # Do not change
          path: path/to/code
          terraform_plan_flags: -var-file=my.tfvars
  ```

3. Send a new pull request to change something in Terraform that costs money; a comment should be posted on the pull request. Check the GitHub Actions logs and [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/cicd#cicd-troubleshooting) if there are issues.

### 2. Terraform plan JSON

1. [Add repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) for `INFRACOST_API_KEY`.

2. Create a new file in `.github/workflows/infracost.yml` in your repo with the following content. Update `path/to/code` to point to your Terraform directory. Also customize the Terraform init/plan steps, and use the [Inputs](#inputs) and [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section below as required.

  ```yml
  on:
    pull_request:
      paths:
      - '**.tf'
      - '**.tfvars'
      - '**.tfvars.json'
  jobs:
    infracost:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      name: Show infracost diff
      steps:
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: "Install terraform"
        uses: hashicorp/setup-terraform@v1

      - name: "Terraform init"
        id: init
        run: terraform init
        working-directory: path/to/code

      - name: "Terraform plan"
        id: plan
        run: terraform plan -out plan.tfplan
        working-directory: path/to/code

      - name: "Terraform show"
        id: show
        run: terraform show -json plan.tfplan
        working-directory: path/to/code
        
      - name: "Save Plan JSON"
        run: echo '${{ steps.show.outputs.stdout }}' > plan.json # Do not change

      - name: Run infracost diff
        uses: infracost/infracost-gh-action@master # Use a specific version instead of master if locking is preferred
        env:
          INFRACOST_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.INFRACOST_API_KEY }}
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          entrypoint: /scripts/ci/diff.sh # Do not change
          path: plan.json # Do not change
  ```

3. Send a new pull request to change something in Terraform that costs money; a comment should be posted on the pull request. Check the GitHub Actions logs and [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/cicd#cicd-troubleshooting) if there are issues.

# Inputs

## `path`

**Optional** Path to the Terraform directory or JSON/plan file. Either `path` or `config_file` is required.

## `terraform_plan_flags`

**Optional** Flags to pass to the 'terraform plan' command, e.g. `"-var-file=my.tfvars -var-file=other.tfvars"`. Applicable when path is a Terraform directory.

## `terraform_workspace`

**Optional** The Terraform workspace to use. Applicable when path is a Terraform directory. Only set this for multi-workspace deployments, otherwise it might result in the Terraform error "workspaces not supported".

## `usage_file`

**Optional** Path to Infracost [usage file](https://www.infracost.io/docs/usage_based_resources#infracost-usage-file) that specifies values for usage-based resources, see [this example file](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/blob/master/infracost-usage-example.yml) for the available options.

## `config_file`

**Optional** If your repo has **multiple Terraform projects or workspaces**, define them in a [config file](https://www.infracost.io/docs/config_file/) and set this input to its path. Their results will be combined into the same diff output. Cannot be used with path, terraform_plan_flags or usage_file inputs. 

## `show_skipped`

**Optional** Show unsupported resources, some of which might be free, at the bottom of the Infracost output (default is false).

## `post_condition`

**Optional** A JSON string describing the condition that triggers pull request comments, can be one of these:
- `'{"has_diff": true}'`: only post a comment if there is a diff. This is the default behavior.
- `'{"always": true}'`: always post a comment.
- `'{"percentage_threshold": 0}'`: absolute percentage threshold that triggers a comment. For example, set to 1 to post a comment if the cost estimate changes by more than plus or minus 1%.

## Environment variables

This section describes the main environment variables that can be used in this GitHub Action. Other supported environment variables are described in the [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/environment_variables). [Repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) can be used for sensitive environment values.

Terragrunt users should also read [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/iac_tools/terragrunt). Terraform Cloud/Enterprise users should also read [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/iac_tools/terraform_cloud_enterprise).

## `INFRACOST_API_KEY`

**Required** To get an API key [download Infracost](https://www.infracost.io/docs/#quick-start) and run `infracost register`.

## `GITHUB_TOKEN`

**Required** GitHub token used to post comments, should be set to `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}` to use the default GitHub token available to actions (see example in the [Usage section](#usage)).

## Cloud credentials

**Required** You do not need to set cloud credentials if you use Terraform Cloud/Enterprise's remote execution mode, instead you should follow [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/iac_tools/terraform_cloud_enterprise).

For all other users, the following is needed so Terraform can run `init`:
- Azure users should read [this section](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_client_secret) to see which environment variables work for their use-case.
- AWS users should set `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, or read [this section](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#environment-variables) of the Terraform docs for other options.
- GCP users should set `GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS`, or read [this section](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/provider_reference#full-reference) of the Terraform docs for other options.

## `INFRACOST_TERRAFORM_BINARY`

**Optional** Used to change the path to the `terraform` binary or version, see [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/environment_variables/#cicd-integrations) for the available options.

## `GIT_SSH_KEY`

**Optional** If you're using Terraform modules from private Git repositories you can set this environment variable to your private Git SSH key so Terraform can access your module.

## `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL`

**Optional** Set this to also post the pull request comment to a [Slack Webhook](https://slack.com/intl/en-tr/help/articles/115005265063-Incoming-webhooks-for-Slack), which should post it in the corresponding Slack channel.

# Outputs

## `total_monthly_cost`

The new total monthly cost estimate.

## `past_total_monthly_cost`

The past total monthly cost estimate.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/)

Commit message:

refactor: use the newly supported default entrypoint
This way users don’t have to provide/know about this when using the action
See https://docs.github.com/en/actions/creating-actions/metadata-syntax-for-github-actions#runsentrypoint

README.md, after:

# Infracost GitHub Action

This GitHub Action runs [Infracost](https://infracost.io) against pull requests whenever Terraform files change. It automatically adds a pull request comment showing the cost estimate difference for the planned state. See [this repo for a demo](https://github.com/infracost/gh-actions-demo).

The Action uses the latest version of Infracost by default as we regularly add support for more cloud resources. If you run into any issues, please join our [community Slack channel](https://www.infracost.io/community-chat); we'd be happy to guide you through it.

As mentioned in our [FAQ](https://infracost.io/docs/faq), no cloud credentials or secrets are sent to the Cloud Pricing API. Infracost does not make any changes to your Terraform state or cloud resources.

<img src="screenshot.png" width=557 alt="Example screenshot" />

## Table of Contents

* [Usage methods](#usage-methods)
  * [Terraform directory](#1-terraform-directory)
  * [Terraform plan JSON](#2-terraform-plan-json)
* [Inputs](#inputs)
* [Environment variables](#environment-variables)
* [Outputs](#outputs)
* [Contributing](#contributing)

# Usage methods

Assuming you have [downloaded Infracost](https://www.infracost.io/docs/#quick-start) and ran `infracost register` to get an API key, there are two methods of using the Infracost GitHub Action:

1. **Terraform directory**, this is the simplest method. However, we recommend the second method if you run into issues relating to `terraform init` or `terraform plan`.

2. **Terraform plan JSON**, this uses the [setup-terraform](https://github.com/hashicorp/setup-terraform) GitHub Action to first generate a plan JSON file then passes that to the Infracost GitHub Action using the `path` input.

### 1. Terraform directory

1. [Add repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) for `INFRACOST_API_KEY` and any other required credentials to your GitHub repo (e.g. `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`).

2. Create a new file in `.github/workflows/infracost.yml` in your repo with the following content. Use the [Inputs](#inputs) and [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section below to decide which `env` and `with` options work for your Terraform setup. The following example uses `path` to specify the location of the Terraform directory and `terraform_plan_flags` to specify the variables file to use when running `terraform plan`. The GitHub Actions [docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#on) describe other options for `on`, though `pull_request` is probably what you want.

  ```yml
  on:
    pull_request:
      paths:
      - '**.tf'
      - '**.tfvars'
      - '**.tfvars.json'
  jobs:
    infracost:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      name: Show infracost diff
      steps:
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
      - name: Run infracost diff
        uses: infracost/infracost-gh-action@master # Use a specific version instead of master if locking is preferred
        env:
          INFRACOST_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.INFRACOST_API_KEY }}
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }} # Do not change
          # See the cloud credentials section for the options
        with:
          path: path/to/code
          terraform_plan_flags: -var-file=my.tfvars
  ```

3. Send a new pull request to change something in Terraform that costs money; a comment should be posted on the pull request. Check the GitHub Actions logs and [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/cicd#cicd-troubleshooting) if there are issues.

### 2. Terraform plan JSON

1. [Add repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) for `INFRACOST_API_KEY`.

2. Create a new file in `.github/workflows/infracost.yml` in your repo with the following content. Update `path/to/code` to point to your Terraform directory. Also customize the Terraform init/plan steps, and use the [Inputs](#inputs) and [Environment Variables](#environment-variables) section below as required.

  ```yml
  on:
    pull_request:
      paths:
      - '**.tf'
      - '**.tfvars'
      - '**.tfvars.json'
  jobs:
    infracost:
      runs-on: ubuntu-latest
      name: Show infracost diff
      steps:
      - name: Check out repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2

      - name: "Install terraform"
        uses: hashicorp/setup-terraform@v1

      - name: "Terraform init"
        id: init
        run: terraform init
        working-directory: path/to/code

      - name: "Terraform plan"
        id: plan
        run: terraform plan -out plan.tfplan
        working-directory: path/to/code

      - name: "Terraform show"
        id: show
        run: terraform show -json plan.tfplan
        working-directory: path/to/code
        
      - name: "Save Plan JSON"
        run: echo '${{ steps.show.outputs.stdout }}' > plan.json # Do not change

      - name: Run infracost diff
        uses: infracost/infracost-gh-action@master # Use a specific version instead of master if locking is preferred
        env:
          INFRACOST_API_KEY: ${{ secrets.INFRACOST_API_KEY }}
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
        with:
          path: plan.json # Do not change as this file is generated above
  ```

3. Send a new pull request to change something in Terraform that costs money; a comment should be posted on the pull request. Check the GitHub Actions logs and [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/cicd#cicd-troubleshooting) if there are issues.

# Inputs

## `path`

**Optional** Path to the Terraform directory or JSON/plan file. Either `path` or `config_file` is required.

## `terraform_plan_flags`

**Optional** Flags to pass to the 'terraform plan' command, e.g. `"-var-file=my.tfvars -var-file=other.tfvars"`. Applicable when path is a Terraform directory.

## `terraform_workspace`

**Optional** The Terraform workspace to use. Applicable when path is a Terraform directory. Only set this for multi-workspace deployments, otherwise it might result in the Terraform error "workspaces not supported".

## `usage_file`

**Optional** Path to Infracost [usage file](https://www.infracost.io/docs/usage_based_resources#infracost-usage-file) that specifies values for usage-based resources, see [this example file](https://github.com/infracost/infracost/blob/master/infracost-usage-example.yml) for the available options.

## `config_file`

**Optional** If your repo has **multiple Terraform projects or workspaces**, define them in a [config file](https://www.infracost.io/docs/config_file/) and set this input to its path. Their results will be combined into the same diff output. Cannot be used with path, terraform_plan_flags or usage_file inputs. 

## `show_skipped`

**Optional** Show unsupported resources, some of which might be free, at the bottom of the Infracost output (default is false).

## `post_condition`

**Optional** A JSON string describing the condition that triggers pull request comments, can be one of these:
- `'{"has_diff": true}'`: only post a comment if there is a diff. This is the default behavior.
- `'{"always": true}'`: always post a comment.
- `'{"percentage_threshold": 0}'`: absolute percentage threshold that triggers a comment. For example, set to 1 to post a comment if the cost estimate changes by more than plus or minus 1%.

## Environment variables

This section describes the main environment variables that can be used in this GitHub Action. Other supported environment variables are described in the [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/environment_variables). [Repo secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/configuring-and-managing-workflows/creating-and-storing-encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository) can be used for sensitive environment values.

Terragrunt users should also read [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/iac_tools/terragrunt). Terraform Cloud/Enterprise users should also read [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/iac_tools/terraform_cloud_enterprise).

## `INFRACOST_API_KEY`

**Required** To get an API key [download Infracost](https://www.infracost.io/docs/#quick-start) and run `infracost register`.

## `GITHUB_TOKEN`

**Required** GitHub token used to post comments, should be set to `${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}` to use the default GitHub token available to actions (see example in the [Usage section](#usage)).

## Cloud credentials

**Required** You do not need to set cloud credentials if you use Terraform Cloud/Enterprise's remote execution mode, instead you should follow [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/iac_tools/terraform_cloud_enterprise).

For all other users, the following is needed so Terraform can run `init`:
- Azure users should read [this section](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs/guides/service_principal_client_secret) to see which environment variables work for their use-case.
- AWS users should set `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, or read [this section](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs#environment-variables) of the Terraform docs for other options.
- GCP users should set `GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS`, or read [this section](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/provider_reference#full-reference) of the Terraform docs for other options.

## `INFRACOST_TERRAFORM_BINARY`

**Optional** Used to change the path to the `terraform` binary or version, see [this page](https://www.infracost.io/docs/integrations/environment_variables/#cicd-integrations) for the available options.

## `GIT_SSH_KEY`

**Optional** If you're using Terraform modules from private Git repositories you can set this environment variable to your private Git SSH key so Terraform can access your module.

## `SLACK_WEBHOOK_URL`

**Optional** Set this to also post the pull request comment to a [Slack Webhook](https://slack.com/intl/en-tr/help/articles/115005265063-Incoming-webhooks-for-Slack), which should post it in the corresponding Slack channel.

# Outputs

## `total_monthly_cost`

The new total monthly cost estimate.

## `past_total_monthly_cost`

The past total monthly cost estimate.

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## License

[Apache License 2.0](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/apache-2.0/)
